---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - First Step to Open Source
---

Before hearing the term "open source", I have already had a weird practice of reading the source code of libraries and browser extensions, as well as clicking on the "view web page source code" tab in my browser. At that time, I took it for granted that their source codes were visible to us, simply admiring their intelligence and effort, not really thinking under the hood why programmers would public and put their hard work under the risk of plagiarism. It was when I was studying Linux OS that I officially learned about "open source". I felt honored, knowing that developers have the kindness to let us study, modify, and even redistribute open source projects. It was also interesting to know that Linux still makes money from tech companies that largely rely on it even if it's free - Google, whose Android and Chrome OS are both based on Linux, has heavily invested in Linux.  

"Open source" seems a real world utopia, but I never thought of being a contributor. To be honest, I was completely focusing on the "software development" part as I enrolled in this course, hoping to enrich my experience and resume in this field, which professor Joanna classified as a common misconception among students. She introduced and really emphasized the term "community", which plays a dominant role in the open source world. I program alone in my major courses most of the time and somewhat hate communicating and socializing. Working within a community will definitely be a challenge for me, but I appreciate the strength of collaboration and look forward to working with people of the same mind.  

---

Both the pros and cons of open source are largely based on its free access to the source code and the community that maintains it. 

- Free access to the source code allows for customization and modification. Users can implement their random ideas or debug a detected error instantly at their local machine. However, it's difficult to cater all tastes, fragmented development and various versions due to the tolerance of redistribution may lead to confusion for beginners to select a suitable version. 

- An active and responsible community reacts fast to user feedback and pull requests and review and improve the code on time. While an inact community lack the ability to addresss security threats quickly. It is also problematic for a malicious person to be trusted and accepted into the community. 

- As for closed source, the developers are usually more trustable and devote more time into development. It often has stable finacial support and systematic documentation. It is relatively more "under control". 

---

Open source projects that I regularly use or influenced me:

- [Greasy Fork](https://greasyfork.org/en) [GitHub](https://github.com/JasonBarnabe/greasyfork): Greasy Fork is an online repository for user scripts. User scripts are small JavaScript programs that "automatically make the sites you visit better by adding features, making them easier to use, or taking out the annoying bits." Greasy Fork is a place where people post the scripts they write to share with the world. The site itself along with the user scripts posted on it are open source and free (in the sense of money) to use. I installed several scripts to rearrange my Google search results as well as obtaining fast dowload link from cloud disks. 

- [Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org) [GitHub](https://github.com/apache/spark): Spark is a data analytic engine for large scalable batch or real-time streaming data. It was designed for fast, interactive computation that runs in memory, enabling machine learning to run quickly. The algorithms include the ability to do classification, regression, clustering, collaborative filtering, and pattern mining. I got to know it on a data science course and was deeply impressed by its host, Apache Software Foundation, the world's largest open source foundation. 

- [Processing](https://processing.org/) [GitHub](https://github.com/processing/): Processing is a free graphical library and integrated development environment (IDE) built for the electronic arts, new media art, and visual design communities with the purpose of teaching non-programmers the fundamentals of computer programming in a visual context. ([Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Processing)) It uses Java with integrated classes and libraries for the conveniance of digital artists. I got to know it on a IMA course that taught graphical designs using Processing. I was not surprised to find that it is also open sourced when writing this blog post. 

- [GDB](https://www.sourceware.org/gdb/): GDB, the GNU Debugger, was among the first programs to be written for the Free Software Foundation, released under the GNU General Public License (GPL), and it has been a staple of free and open source software systems ever since. It allows us to see what is going on `inside' another program while it executes -- or what another program was doing at the moment it crashed. It is a powerful tool when I'm debugging C on Linux, as I can set breakpoints and examine what has happened to find out why my program halted on countless segmentation faults. 

